# Musicals

Choosing a musical to listen to or watch can be an incredibly hard decision especially if you **THINK** you wouldn’t enjoy them. Believe me as someone who was in your position not too long ago I will be enlightening you with my totally real not fake expertise in musical selections. 

First think about what you’re into. There are many genres to choose from.  
According to Theater Haus: Home of theater there are 8 main categories.

1. Book Musicals  
   1. There is a clear narrative structure with the songs and dances advancing the plot and character development  
2.  Jukebox Musicals  
   1. Jukebox musicals are built around pre-existing songs, often from a particular artist or era  
3. Revue Musicals  
   1. Revue musicals are collections of loosely connected musical numbers, often with a specific theme.  
4. Rock Musicals  
   1. Rock musicals feature a rock music score, often with edgier themes and subject matter.  
5. Concept Musicals  
   1. Concept musicals are built around a central idea or concept, often with a more experimental structure.  
6. Operetta  
   1. Operettas are lighter, more comedic musicals with a focus on music and dancing.   
7. Pastiche Musicals  
   1. Pastiche musicals borrow from different styles and genres, often with a more tongue-in-cheek tone.  
8. Disney-style Musicals  
   1. Disney-style musicals are family-friendly and often based on animated films

However if you're anything like me you probably loosely read through that and/or wondered what that really meant for your taste. So I rather categorize them based on “normal” genres.

### Historical

Now take the fact that it is historical with a grain of salt. You’re not going to get an exact retelling of historical events. They're walking around spontaneously breaking out into song, be real. But there are many musicals based on real historical events. 

#### Hamilton \- 

You know hamilton. Tell me you didn’t have Lin-Manuel Miranda shoved down your throat. You didn't? Well as you can imagine this musical tells the story of Alexander Hamilton during the American Revolution. The story follows Hamilton's involvement in the American Revolution, the young nation's early political struggles, as well Hamilton's marriage, rivalries, and his interactions with Aaron Burr. The style of music is often referred to as  

#### SIX \- 

If you don't already like musicals you may not know this one though it was also very popular. In this show, the wives (Catherine of Aragon, Anne Boleyn, Jane Seymour, Anna of Cleves, Katherine Howard, and Catherine Parr) of Henry the eighth  take turns telling their story to determine who suffered the most from their shared husband, but ultimately seek to reclaim their individual identities and rewrite their stories.

### Horror/Thriller

Again how scary these musicals really are is up to you but how scared are you going to be from very obviously fake blood.

#### The Hatchet Field series \- 

###### *The Guy Who Didn't Like Musicals \-* 

The Guy Who Didn’t Like Musicals is a horror-comedy show following Paul, an ordinary guy who doesn’t like musicals. Paul can't stand musicals, it's his greatest hate. But one day, he wakes up to find his town infectiously singing and dancing. As an alien presence takes Hatchetfield, Paul and a small group of survivors try to fight their way out.

###### *Black Friday \-* 

When the holiday season’s hottest new toy, the Tickle-Me Wiggly, hits the shelves, the city of Hatchetfield goes mad for it, literally. That’s when the main characters must fight through a sea of murderous mall-goers to save humanity from an inter dimensional being with a taste for chaos. When the god-like being Wiggly comes to town, will the world survive?

###### *Nerdy Prudes Must Die-* 

When a group of nerdy prudes at Hatchetfield High accidentally complete an ancient evil ritual, they unleash a powerful spirit into the halls of the school \- and it doesn't like nerds.

###### *Nightmare Time \-* 

Honorary mention, nightmare time is not a musical but is a collection of stories that are not needed to understand the story but do help with understanding some references and character choices. 

#### Beetlejuice \-

### Comedy

#### FireBringer-

At the dawn of humanity, one tribe of cave-people survives the many trials of prehistoric life under the wise leadership of Jemilla, The Peacemaker. Jemilla taught her people to express themselves, rather than bashing each others' heads with rocks and eating each others' babies. But one member of the tribe doesn't seem to fit in: Zazzalil. She's always trying to invent things to make life easier… for herself. While out hatching her latest scheme, Zazzalil stumbles upon the most important discovery in history. One that will pit her tribe against wooly mammoths, saber-toothed tigers, and change the world forever. She'll travel from omega to alpha, and become… the Firebringer\!

#### The Prom- 

A troupe of hilariously self-obsessed theater stars swarm into a small conservative Indiana town in support of a high-school girl who wants to take her girlfriend to the prom.

### Tragedy 

#### Ride The Cyclone-

In this hilarious and outlandish story, the lives of six teenagers from a Canadian chamber choir are cut short in a freak accident aboard a roller coaster. When they awake in limbo, a mechanical fortune teller invites each to tell a story to win a prize like no other — the chance to return to life. This popular musical is a funny, moving look at what makes a life well-lived\!

#### Mythological \- 

The Lightning Thief \-  
**Would not recommend it if you have read and enjoyed the book.(you know it's never the same)**  
This dynamic musical adaptation of Rick Riordan's bestselling book opened on Broadway in 2019\. When teenager Percy Jackson discovers he's a demigod, he and his friends embark on an epic journey to find Zeus' missing lightning bolt and prevent a war among the gods. 

#### EPIC the Musical Concept Album \- 

As the name suggests this is not a fully completed musical. However I couldn't resist adding it here. Epic boasts a collection of 40 songs following Odysseus’s journey home from the pillaging of Troy. Whether or not you enjoy the Odyssey I would recommend it. While all that exists are songs, they expertly tell a new interpretation of the story accompanied with a catchy beat. And with a dedicated fan base there are many fan animatics to further your imagination.

### Drama

#### Dear Evan Hansen
